Top 10 Famous Historic Figures Who Suffered
Horrifying
Diseases
10.
Edgar Allan Poe Died of Rabies
The death of Edgar Allan Poe in 1849 has long
been a freaky source of mystery.
After vanishing for nearly a week after leaving
his home in Richmond, Virginia, the poet finally
turned up lying in a gutter in Baltimore,
wearing someone else’s clothes and nearly
incoherent.
Poe then spent four days suffering extreme
hallucinations, before spiraling into madness
and dying.
At the time, the cause of his death (and the
circumstances surrounding it) were considered
a total mystery.
We still don’t know for absolute certain
what killed him, as that would require DNA
testing.
But in 1996, Dr. R. Michael Benitez was participating
in a conference where medical practitioners
were given an anonymous patient and a list
of symptoms and asked to diagnose them.
Unbeknownst to him, Benitez was given Poe.
The specialist doctor took one look at the
‘anonymous patient’s’ file and declared
it “a clear case of rabies.”
In the 19th century, rabies was extremely
common.
It now seems likely Poe was bitten by a rabid
animal and succumbed to the horrifying disease
before he could tell anyone.
While the theory isn’t one hundred percent
watertight – Poe showed no signs of hydrophobia,
which is a common symptom of rabies – it
may well be the closest we ever get to solving
this aptly ghoulish mystery.
9.
Beethoven was Born with Syphilis
One of our favorite pieces of trivia is that
Beethoven, the legendary composer who wrote
some of the best music in history, was deaf.
From the mid-1790s, he was affected by a buzzing
noise in his ears.
By the age of 30 he was losing his hearing
badly.
Many of his greatest works were written after
that time.
One tidbit often gets left out of this story.
A few years back, the University of Maryland’s
annual Historical Clinicopathological Conference
decided to look into what might have caused
Beethoven’s deafness.
Although the passage of time has made it impossible
to say for certain, they did come up with
one candidate they thought extremely likely:
syphilis.
One symptom of syphilis can be deafness, and
syphilis was way common in Beethoven’s time.
It’s thought his father had it, which may
go some way toward explaining how Beethoven
got infected.
Like HIV, syphilis can be passed from mother
to child in the womb.
If Beethoven’s dad had infected his mom,
it’s almost certain that’s where the composer’s
ear-destroying STI came from.
8.
Tutankhamun Looked Like an Inbred Yokel
Today, it’s widely known that inbreeding
is a bad idea.
Aside from being totally gross, getting jiggy
with your sister can result in a child suffering
truly awful disabilities.
In Ancient Egypt, though, they hadn’t quite
figured that out yet.
Royals thought inbreeding would help keep
their line pure.
Instead, it resulted in pharaohs who looked
like inbred yokels.
One of whom was the legendary Tutankhamun.
King Tut came from a long line of inbreds
and boy did it show.
In the words of the Wall Street Journal, King
Tut had “anterior incisors and an overbite
(buck teeth), a cleft palate, curvature of
the spine (scoliosis), a club foot and a grossly
elongated head (dolichocephaly).
He also had feminine breasts and hips, as
did several of his male predecessors.
Almost certainly, there were other undetected
defects of vital organs.”
In other words, this ancient king looked less
like some great and powerful ruler, and more
like the sort of guy you might see looking
for work as an extra in the remake of Deliverance.
7.
Samuel Johnson Probably Had Tourette Syndrome
Samuel Johnson was one of the wittiest writers
of his time.
A coarse, vulgar beast of a man, he palled
around with guys like Johnathon Swift, while
redefining what the English language was capable
of.
He was also pretty odd.
Contemporary accounts report that he liked
to make weird-ass noises while sitting in
polite company, and had a compulsive habit
of rubbing his knee while talking.
On the streets, he was prone to gesticulating
wildly at nothing.
Do those symptoms sound familiar?
They might.
Although Dr. Johnson’s tics caused hilarity
at the time, modern doctors have posthumously
diagnosed him with Tourette Syndrome.
While the most-commonly depicted form involves
shouting out swear words, plenty of sufferers
are simply stuck making nervous twitches and
involuntary noises.
Dr. Johnson was evidently one-such sufferer.
He used to cluck like a hen, shake his head
wildly and whistle uncontrollably.
It got so bad in later life that gangs of
children used to follow him down the street,
pointing and laughing.
6.
H.P.
Lovecraft’s Weird Cold Aversion
Horror maestro H.P.
Lovecraft was one peculiar dude.
For one thing, he was a lifelong anti-Semite
who managed to absently-mindedly marry a Jewish
woman.
For another, he was obsessed with the dangers
of interbreeding, in a way that went beyond
bog-standard racism and into a pathological
fear.
But perhaps weirdest of all might be his strange
aversion to the cold.
If the temperature ever dropped too low, Lovecraft
was apt to collapse into a dead faint from
which he couldn’t be woken until warmed
up again.
Interestingly, we have absolutely no idea
what caused this.
It seemed to come on in the writer’s adulthood
and wasn’t triggered by any one thing.
Some have linked it to his frequent migraines,
while others have suggested it was psychological.
Lovecraft himself seemed to link it to the
cancer that eventually killed him.
At any rate, it made him develop an extreme
paranoia about the cold, a paranoia that filtered
through into some of his stories like the
gruesome Cool Air.
5.
Darwin’s Whole Life was One Big Puke-a-thon
About a year after his long voyage on the
Beagle, Charles Darwin developed a bizarre
condition that would haunt him for the rest
of his life.
About three hours after eating, he would get
extreme abdominal pains, followed by hideous
nausea.
Moments later, he would expel everything in
a great big vomit-a-thon that left him utterly
exhausted.
At some points in his life, the condition
got so bad that he was basically rendered
an invalid.
The freakiest part of all?
We still don’t know what caused it.
Although all Darwin’s friends thought he
was a hypochondriac, modern doctors have subsequently
diagnosed him with Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome
(CVS).
The problem is we’re still not sure what
really causes it.
While Darwin could get an accurate diagnosis
if he was alive today, even in 2016 his doctors
likely couldn’t do a lot to help.
Was it maybe related to his time at sea?
Who the heck knows?
4.
Julius Caesar Had Endless Strokes
You may have heard before that Julius Caesar
had epilepsy.
Certainly that’s what people have thought
for centuries.
When you take into account his symptoms – such
as collapsing into fits – it definitely
sounds plausible.
But a recent study from 2015 has another idea.
According to the authors, there’s a good
chance Caesar suffered a catastrophic series
of mini-strokes.
The technical name for these is a series of
Transient Ischemic Attacks, but it amounts
to the same thing.
Rather than suffering the same illness as
people like Graham Greene and Ian Curtis,
the ruler of Rome may well have had a series
of debilitating strokes.
If that’s the case, it’s perhaps lucky
for Caesar’s posterity that he got assassinated
when he did.
A proper stroke could have left him utterly
incapacitated and at the mercy of his enemies;
a far worse fate than the quick, brutal stabbing
that ultimately felled him.
3.
Lenin’s Brain was Turning to Stone
When he finally died, infamous revolutionary
Vladimir Lenin was only 53 years old.
His death came on the tail-end of a series
of strokes, and shortly after, he was placed
in Stalin’s personal care.
At the time, nobody knew what the heck was
wrong with him.
First Russian doctors suspected mental exhaustion.
Then lead poisoning.
Finally, they just rolled with syphilis on
the basis that seemingly everybody in the
olden days had the dreaded French disease.
It wasn’t until they performed an autopsy
on the dead Communist that they uncovered
the horrifying truth.
Lenin’s brain had been slowly turning to
stone.
The technical name for his condition was cerebrovascular
atherosclerosis, and it’s creepy as hell.
Basically, calcium deposits built up in his
cerebral arteries to the point they became
nearly solid.
When the morticians tapped the affected areas
with tweezers, they made a sound like stone.
Creepily, this wasn’t a case of 1920s man
running up against something he didn’t understand
and being helpless in the face of it.
Even today, someone with Lenin’s condition
would be unlikely to live much longer than
he did.
2.
Akhenaten Probably Suffered a Hormone Disorder
The Egyptian pharaoh Akhenaten likely came
from the same line that later produced the
yokel-like Tutankhamun.
With that in mind, you’d probably expect
to find that he had some weird stuff going
on.
And you’d be right: Akhenaten suffered the
same elongated head as his more-famous descendant.
But Akhenaten also had some strange gripes
that were all his own.
In 2009, professor of dermatology and an expert
on visual diagnosis at the Yale University
School of Medicine, Irwin Braverman, came
up with his own theory.
Akhenaten was probably suffering a hormone
disorder that made his male body look like
it belonged to a woman.
In ancient drawings, Akhenaten is often depicted
as having wide hips, a narrow waist and feminine
breasts.
Yet we know for a fact that the ancient ruler
was male.
Seems like somebody’s made a mistake, until
you realize the pharaoh’s genetic defects
caused by inbreeding could have left him with
an extreme hormone imbalance.
Specifically, overproduction of the enzyme
aromatase could have caused his body to be
flooded with estrogen from an early age.
That would explain how a guy who is meant
to be male could wind up looking so spectacularly
female in ancient engravings.
However, since we’ve yet to find Akhenaten’s
mummy, we still can’t say for certain that
this is the case.
1.
King Herod Had Some of the Nastiest Ailments
in History
Herod the Great was an overachieving king
who, among other things, built the largest
artificial harbor in the Mediterranean.
Today, though, he’s mainly remembered for
ordering the Slaughter of the Innocents in
an attempt to kill baby Jesus – something
many now think never actually happened.
Apparently, God didn’t get the memo.
When it came time to shove Herod off this
mortal coil, He did it in the nastiest way
possible.
According to the ancient writer Flavius Josephus
(who lived about 100 years after Herod died),
the king “had a fever, though not a raging
fever, an intolerable itching of the whole
skin, continuous pains in the intestines,
tumors of the feet as in dropsy, inflamation
of the abdomen, and gangrene of the privy
parts.”
He also suffered convulsions of the limbs
and had foul, fetid breath that could strip
paint.
But the real awful bit is contained in those
last five words: gangrene of the privy parts.
Herod’s junk was so awash with bacteria
that it literally began dying while it was
still attached to him.
Today, we know this disease as Fournier’s
Gangrene, and it’s basically one of the
most-painful, disgusting ways you can possibly
die.
Except this isn’t what actually killed Herod,
but was likely a final – and extremely painful
– complication.
In fact, it’s now thought that chronic kidney
disease did the Biblical king in.
Maybe so, but it’s the image of his decaying
wang falling apart as its flesh is eaten away
that’s really gonna stick with us.